README for GRUB -- GRand Unified Boot-loader

Introduction

  GRUB version 0.5 is a bootloader for PC-compatible machines, which
  complies with the Multiboot standard.  It was written by Erich Boleyn
  <erich@uruk.org>.  More information about the mainstream releases of
  GRUB can be found at http://www.uruk.org/grub/.

  This release of GRUB is not a mainstream release.  GRUB has been chosen
  by the Alliance Operating System team (http://www.allos.org/) as their
  standard bootloader, and GRUB will be kept up to date and share code 
  with the rest of the Alliance source tree.  Currently, not much more has
  changed than a restructuring of the GRUB tree to allow code sharing with
  the Alliance ABL, but significant changes may be made to the tree in the 
  future (both Alliance-related and Alliance-independant) in which case
  we will start using a new versioning system (GRUB a0.1, GRUB a0.2 etc.)
  Moreover, we are also borrowing code from another effort to improve
  GRUB, Gordon Matzigkeit's GNU GRUB (mailing list bug-grub-request@gnu.org).


Installation

  When you build the Alliance source tree, the makefile will dump compiled
  versions of the GRUB stages in the "binaries" directory:

	binaries/
		stage1		This is the 512-byte stage1 which reads
				in the rest of GRUB at boot-time.
		stage2		This is the main part of GRUB.

  Instructions for installing can be found in "docs/manual/install.html".


Notes on hacking GRUB

  IMPORTANT SIZE LIMITS:

  - For the various stage2's, if they are being loaded from a block-list
    in the stage1, then be sure your blocklist is big enough.  The
    automated install will generally do this for you, it's just when
    dropping it on a raw floppy, you get the default compiled in, which
    is 512 * 80 disk sectors, or 40960 bytes.

  - For the FFS stage1.5, if you want to fit into the "bootloader" area
    of an FFS partition, it cannot be larger than 512 * 14 disk sectors,
    or 7168 bytes.


Other Documentation

  Pretty much all of the documentation and other helpful information is
  in the "docs" directory mostly as HTML files, the root of which is
  "index.html".

  The FAQ and Installation instructions really need to be updated and
  improved!

  The TODO and NEWS files are always up-to-date.

